# hw02

## custom.01
**(a)** In a photoelectric effect experiment, when green light ($$\text{wavelength}=0.535\:\mu\text{m}$$) is irradiated on the surface of a certain metal, the maximum energy of the electron that is emitted from the metal is measured to be $$1.85\times10^{(-19)}\:\text{J}$$. What is the work function ($$\text{eV}$$) of the metal?

**(b)** What will be the maximum energy ($$\text{J}$$) of an electron emitted from this metal, if now red light ($$\text{wavelength}=0.650\:\mu\text{m}$$) is irradiated on this metal?

**(c)** If this red light is now irradiated on Beryllium instead of this metal, will there be electrons emitted from Beryllium? **(i)** If yes, what will be the maximum energy ($$\text{J}$$) of the emitted electrons? **(ii)** If not, explain why electrons will not be emitted.


## 2.7
Determine the de Broglie wavelength for

**(a)** an electron with kinetic energy of **(i)** $$1.2\:\text{eV}$$, **(ii)** $$12\:\text{eV}$$, **(iii)** $$120\:\text{eV}$$, and

**(b)** a hydrogen atom with kinetic energy of $$1.2\:\text{eV}$$.

> **NOTE**:
$$
\text{photon veloctiy}=c;\\
\text{velocity of electrons}<c;
$$


## 2.10
(a) The de Broglie wavelength of an electron is $$85\:\unicode{xC5}$$. Determine the electron energy ($$\text{eV}$$), momentum and velocity.

(b) An electron is movign with a velocity of $$8\times10^5\:\tfrac{\text{cm}}{\text{s}}$$. Determine the electron energy ($$\text{eV}$$), momentum, and de Broglie wavelength. ($$\unicode{xC5}$$).


## 2.26
An electron is bound in one-dimensional infinite potential well with a width of $$10\:\unicode{xC5}$$.

**(a)** Calculate the first three energy levels that the electron may occupy.

**(b)** If the electron drops from the third to the second energy level, what is the wavelength of a photon that might be emitted?


## custom.02
**(a)** Write the electronic configuration of Thallium.

**(b)** Complete the Electron Energy Level Diagram (Handout 28) showing all electrons.

**(c)** Describe the highest electron in Thallium in terms of its quantum nubmers.
